# 1. Deployment on-prem & as a SaaS

## Status

Proposed

## Context

In global health there are two deployment constraints that push against one
another:  the desire for iNGO's, government agencies, multi-laterals, etc to
lower the barrier to acquiring software solutions by utilizing a SaaS model,
and that of many governments to exercise self-reliance and sovereignty of their
software and their data by being able to reasonably deploy software on premise
in their own data center.

With regards to SaaS, must customers of the software are able and willing to
pay reasonable monthly fees, especially if those fees are predictable over a
suitable project timeline.  For organizations that want to offer PCMT as a
SaaS the typical customer is expected to be an organization with many users,
where the sign-up process for the organization could be as rudimentary as an 
email and the organization will have appropriate technical staff to launch a
new PCMT instance at an appropriate URI.

When a government agency deploys the software in their own data center a
principal concern is that of limited resources.  Limited both in hardware and
the maturity of the data center, as well as on the technical staff available.
There are few organizations within PCMT's user-base that have extensive 
experience running highly available services or complicated deployment stacks.

## Decision

We will build PCMT to be multi-single-tenant utilizing containers as the basic
unit of deployment.  Each instance of PCMT will be served by one or more 
containers, and where each container serves only one function for one PCMT
instance.

We will build simple tools, in the category of Infrastructure as Code, that
helps provision computing resources both in one cloud provider as well as
on-prem, configure the instance of PCMT, and aid in the maintenance life-cycle 
of that instance:  upgrades, backups, archiving, destruction.

We will provide complete IaC deliverables that are able to provision resources
outside of PCMT's scope, such as email & DNS.

We will build PCMT so that it runs in as little as 2GB of RAM, 1 core of a 
modern CPU and 10GB of storage.

## Consequences

The development team will not need to scope and build each feature to be
multi-tenant.

The development team will need to properly scope and build PCMT and its
supporting deployment tools to run both in the cloud and on-premise using
a basic set of IaC tools that are free and simple to use.

PCMT's scope and performance characteristics will be constrained in-part by 
what can be reasonable run within 2GB of RAM and 2 CPU cores with 10GB of 
storage.

Those wishing to deploy PCMT as a SaaS will have a starting point, however they
likely will need to invest more in order to run a large number of instances,
reduce the deployment lead-time, or reduce the per-instance cost.